HACK(6) 			 Games Manual			       HACK(6)

NAME
       hack - exploring The Dungeons of Doom

SYNOPSIS
       /usr/games/hack [ -d directory ] [ -n ] [ -u playername ]
       /usr/games/hack [ -d directory ] -s [ -X ] [ playernames ]

DESCRIPTION
       Hack is a display oriented dungeons & dragons - like game.  Both
       display and command structure resemble rogue.  (For a game with the
       same structure but entirely different display - a real cave instead of
       dull rectangles - try Quest.)

       To get started you really only need to know two commands.  The command
       ?  will give you a list of the available commands and the command /
       will identify the things you see on the screen.

       To win the game (as opposed to merely playing to beat other people high
       scores) you must locate the Amulet of Yendor which is somewhere below
       the 20th level of the dungeon and get it out.  Nobody has achieved this
       yet and if somebody does, he will probably go down in history as a hero
       among heroes.

       When the game ends, either by your death, when you quit, or if you
       escape from the caves, hack will give you (a fragment of) the list of
       top scorers.  The scoring is based on many aspects of your behavior but
       a rough estimate is obtained by taking the amount of gold you've found
       in the cave plus four times your (real) experience. Precious stones may
       be worth a lot of gold when brought to the exit.  There is a 10%
       penalty for getting yourself killed.

       The administration of the game is kept in the directory specified with
       the -d option, or, if no such option is given, in the directory
       specified by the environment variable HACKDIR, or, if no such variable
       exists, in the current directory. This same directory contains several
       auxiliary files such as lockfiles and the list of top scorers and a
       subdirectory save where games are saved.  The game administrator may
       however choose to install hack with a fixed playing ground, usually
       /usr/games/lib/hackdir.

       The -n option suppresses printing of the news.

       The -u playername option supplies the answer to the question "Who are
       you?".  When playername has as suffix one of -T -S -K -F -C -W then
       this supplies the answer to the question "What kind of character ...
       ?".

       The -s option will print out the list of your scores. It may be
       followed by arguments -X where X is one of the letters C, F, K, S, T, W
       to print the scores of Cavemen, Fighters, Knights, Speleologists,
       Tourists or Wizards.  It may also be followed by one or more player
       names to print the scores of the players mentioned.

AUTHORS
       Jay Fenlason (+ Kenny Woodland, Mike Thome and Jon Payne) wrote the
       original hack, very much like rogue (but full of bugs).
       Andries Brouwer continuously deformed their sources into the current
       version - in fact an entirely different game.

FILES
       hack	      The hack program.
       data, rumors   Data files used by hack.
       help, hh       Help data files.
       record	      The list of top scorers.
       save	      A subdirectory containing the saved
		      games.
       bones_dd       Descriptions of the ghost and
		      belongings of a deceased adventurer.
       xlock.dd       Description of a dungeon level.
       safelock       Lock file for xlock.
       record_lock    Lock file for record.

ENVIRONMENT
       USER or LOGNAME	  Your login name.
       HOME		  Your home directory.
       SHELL		  Your shell.
       TERM		  The type of your terminal.
       HACKPAGER, PAGER   Pager used instead of default pager.
       MAIL		  Mailbox file.
       MAILREADER	  Reader used instead of default.
       HACKDIR		  Playground.
       HACKOPTIONS	  String predefining several hack options
			  (see help file).

       Several other environment variables are used in debugging (wizard)
       mode, like GENOCIDED, INVENT, MAGIC and SHOPTYPE.

BUGS
       Probably infinite.  Mail complaints to mcvax!aeb .

4th Berkeley Distribution	 31 March 1985			       HACK(6)
